---
title: "Wok 0.3.0 is out"
date: 2026-03-01
status: published
---

I just released [Wok 0.3.0](https://github.com/balanza/wok/releases/tag/v0.3.0), whose main addition _per se_ is worktree support. Nevertheless, I realized I never
introduced the project properly. Time to do it.

## Introducing: Wok
[Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) is a CLI application that helps managing coding projects on the local laptop.
It's an opinionated set of smart scripts that basically help me moving around project folders without thinking and
typing too much. It does so by using some conventions and leveraging shell's autocomplete features.

The name [wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) is at the same time: a reference to the word _workspace_, an homage to my
lovely wife, a pun on my sloppy _R_ (which for a _[Romanesco](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romanesco_dialect)_ native speaker is a big thing, trust me),
a very short word to type.

## The CLI design
The core principles are: type less, learn incrementally, build muscle memory. Navigating project should feel like
using keybinding in the IDE.

With that in mind, I designed the `wok` command to be smart enough to understand what to do for the most repetitive actions (cloning
projects, `cd`-ing into projects) and to use flags to enforce some less-used action (like list projects and
import/export workspaces).

Another key point is that invoking `wok` should have the same effect regardless of the current working directory; that
is, running `wok balanza/example` will **always** move the shell to the _example_ project root directory.

## Some examples

To add a project, you can clone it with

```
> wok git@github.com:balanza/awesomeproject.git
```

[Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) receives a URL and then understand it has to clone. `git` is used underlying, so
whatever authentication method is needed is inherited by the git configuration.

Regardless of where the command is executed, the project is cloned into `~/Workspace/balanza/awesomeproject` (the default
workspace directory can be set with the `WOK_SPACE` environment variable).

Then every time you need to move into the project's root folder, just

```shell
> wok balanaza/awesomeproject
```

or use the autocomplete with `<TAB>`

```shell
> wok balawesom<TAB>
balanza/awesomeproject balanza/someotherproject
```


## How to start with Wok

First get the application using the installation script:

```shell
> curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/balanza/wok/main/install.sh | bash
```

[Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) is tightly bound with the running shell to provide the most seamless integration
possible. It requires some setup before the first usage, just run `wok` and the needed operations will be detected
automatically.

```shell
> wok
╭─────────────────────────────────────╮
│             WOK v0.3.0              │
╰─────────────────────────────────────╯

  Using default workspace '/home/emanuele/Workspace'

  37 projects in 13 organizations

Setup Status:
  ✗ Wokrc File - Todo
  ✓ Wokrc Configuration - Done
  ✗ Autocomplete File - Todo

⚠ Wok needs to be setup to work correctly.
Do you want to update the setup now? (y/n):
```

Type `y` and you are done, you can start adding project to your workspace. Now, if you list the projects with

```shell
> wok -l
```

You will probably see an empty list. This is because [Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) relies on a specific folder
structure to read projects. As you probably didn't already organize your file system as
[Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) expects, you will need to move your current projects

```shell
> wok --scrape .
✔ Found 2 repositories
  balanza/oldproject
  torvalds/linux
Options:
  1. Import repositories into current workspace
  2. Save to JSON file (can be imported later)
  3. Abort

Enter your choice [1-3]:
```

will recursively scan the provided directory searching for `git` repository, so that you can move them into your new
workspace.

## Final words

I wrote [Wok](https://github.com/balanza/wok) for my needs and it's tailored around what I do. My work setup is Linux
with ZSH, (almost) all the projects I contribute to use `.git` as svc and `Github` for hosting, I use both `neovim` and
`vscode` as IDE. Nevertheless, I'm trying to build features that can sound to other developers, too.

If you find it interesting for you, reach out in the repository: https://github.com/balanza/wok.

